# Assignment 1 

## Overview 

A popular use of cloud services is to manage media that is uploaded 
from mobile devices. In this assignment you will create a basic 
application for uploading video to a cloud service and managing the 
video's metadata. After you can build this basic type of application, 
you'll have the core knowledge needed to create more sophisticated 
cloud services using Spring. 

## Instructions 

First, clone this Git repository and import it into Eclipse or 
IntelliJ as a Gradle Project. You can do this from the Eclipse "File" 
menu by selecting "Import". Expand the "Gradle" option and then choose 
"Existing Gradle Project". Select the root folder of this project and 
then hit "Finish". In IntelliJ, you can go to File->Open and select 
the root folder of this project. 

This assignment tests your ability to create a web application that 
allows clients to upload videos to a server. The server allows clients 
to first upload a video's metadata (e.g., duration, etc.) and then to 
upload the actual binary data for the video. The server should support 
uploading video binary data with a multipart request. 

The test that is used to grade your implementation is AutoGradingTest 
in the org.magnum.dataup package in src/test/java. **_You should use 
the source code in the AutoGradingTest as the ground truth for what 
the expected behavior of your solution is_.** Your app should pass 
this test without any errors. 

You must implement the following HTTP API endpoint methods so the 
AutoGradingTest will pass: 

GET /video 
- Returns the list of videos that have been added to the server as 
JSON. The list of videos need not persist across restarts of the 
server. A client should be able to unmarshal the list of Video 
objects into a Collection<Video>. 
- The return content-type should be application/json 
   
GET /video/{id}
- Returns the JSON data for the given video. 
- The return content-type should be application/json 

POST /video 
- The video metadata is provided as an application/json request 
body. The JSON should generate a valid instance of the Video 
class when deserialized by Spring's default Jackson library. 
- Returns the JSON representation of the Video object that was 
stored along with any updates to that object made by the server. 
- **_The server should generate a unique identifier for the Video 
object and assign it to the Video by calling its setId(...) 
method._** 
- No video should have ID = 0, i.e., all IDs should be > 0. 
- The returned Video JSON should include this server-generated 
identifier so the client can refer to it when uploading the 
binary mpeg video content for the Video. 
- The server should also generate a "data url" for the Video. The 
"data url" is the url of the binary data for a Video (e.g., the 
raw mpeg data). The URL should be the _full_ URL for the video 
and not just the path (e.g., localhost:8080/video/1/data 
would be a valid data url). See the Hints section for some ideas 
on how to generate this URL. 

POST /video/{id}/data 
- The binary mpeg data for the video should be provided in a 
multipart request as a part with the key "data". The id in the 
path should be replaced with the unique identifier generated by 
the server for the Video. A client MUST *create* a Video first by 
sending a POST to /video and getting the identifier for the newly 
created Video object before sending a POST to /video/{id}/data. 
- The endpoint should return a VideoStatus object with 
state=VideoState.READY if the request succeeds and the 
appropriate HTTP error status otherwise. VideoState.PROCESSING 
is present in VideoState, but is not used in this assignment. 
- Rather than a PUT request, a POST is used because, by default, 
Spring does not support a PUT with multipart data due to design 
decisions in the Commons File Upload library (see 
issues.apache.org/jira/browse/FILEUPLOAD-197). 

GET /video/{id}/data 
- Returns the binary mpeg data (if any) for the video with the 
given identifier. If no mpeg data has been uploaded for the 
specified video the server should return a 404 error status code. 

The AutoGradingTest should be used as the ultimate ground truth for 
what should be implemented in the assignment. If there are any details 
in the description above that conflict with the AutoGradingTest, use 
the details in the AutoGradingTest as the correct behavior and report 
the discrepancy on the course piazza forum. Moreover, look at the 
AutoGradingTest to ensure you understand all the requirements. 

Again, the ultimate ground truth of how the assignment will be graded 
is contained in AutoGradingTest, which shows the specific tests that 
will be run to grade your solution. You must implement everything that 
is required to make all of the tests in this class pass. If a test 
case is not mentioned in this README file, you are still responsible 
for it and will be graded on whether or not it passes. __Make sure and 
read the AutoGradingTest code and look at each test__! 

You should not modify any of the code in Video, VideoStatus, or 
AutoGradingTest. 

## Running the Application 

To run the application: 

Eclipse -- Right-click on the Application class in the org.magnum.dataup 
package, Run As->Java Application 

IntelliJ -- Right-click on the Application class in the org.magnum.dataup 
package, Run Application 

## Testing Your Implementation 

To test your solution, run the AutoGradingTest. In addition, each time 
you push your code to GitHub, a GitHub Action will run and execute 
this test. The results of running this test will be available in 
GitHub. The primary measure for grading will be passing all of the 
tests. 

## Submitting Your Implementation 

To submit your assignment, you must push your final version to the 
main branch of your repository in GitHub prior to the assignment 
deadline. In addition, you should follow any other relevant 
instructions in Brightspace. 

## Provided Code 

- __org.magnum.dataup.Video__: This simple class represents the 
metadata for a video. You can create one using a builder like this: 

```java 
Video video = Video.create().withContentType("video/mpeg") 
.withDuration(123).withSubject("Mobile Cloud") 
.withTitle("Programming Cloud Services for ...").build(); 
``` 
You can also accept a Video from an application/json request body or return the 
JSON of a video like this: 
```java 
@RequestMapping(value = "/funny/video", method = RequestMethod.POST) 
public @ResponseBody Video addVideo(@RequestBody Video v){ 
   // Do something with the Video 
   // ... 
   return v; 
} 
``` 
- __org.magnum.dataup.VideoFileManager__: You can optionally use this 
class (but are not required) to use to store video binary data to 
the file system. By default, it stores all videos to a "videos" 
directory in the current working directory. You can use this class 
as follows: 
```java 
// Initialize this member variable somewhere with 
// videoDataMgr = VideoFileManager.get() 
// 
private VideoFileManager videoDataMgr; 

// You would need some Controller method to call this... 
public void saveSomeVideo(Video v, MultipartFile videoData) 
throws IOException { 
   videoDataMgr.saveVideoData(video, videoData.getInputStream()); 
} 

public void serveSomeVideo(Video v, HttpServletResponse response) 
throws IOException { 
   // Of course, you would need to send some headers, etc. to the 
   // client too! 
   // ... 
   videoDataMgr.copyVideoData(v, response.getOutputStream()); 
} 
``` 

## Hints 

- A valid solution will have at least one class annotated with 
@RestController or @Controller. This could be the VideoController or you could 
add other controllers.
- You will likely need be at least four different methods annotated 
with @RequestMapping (or @GetMapping, @PostMapping, etc.) to 
implement the specified HTTP API. 
- Any Controller method can take an HttpServletRequest or 
HttpServletResponse as parameters to gain low-level access/control 
over the HTTP messages. Spring will automatically fill in these 
parameters when your Controller's method is invoked: 
```java 
... 
@RequestMapping("/some/path/{id}") 
public MyObject doSomething( 
   @PathVariable("id") String id, 
   @RequestParam("something") String data, 
   HttpServletResponse response) { 
   // Maybe you want to set the status code with the response 
   // or write some binary data to an OutputStream obtained 
   // from the HttpServletResponse object. 
   .... 
} 

``` 
- The IDs must be of type long. The tests send long values to the 
server and will generate 400 response codes if you use an int. 
- If you get an error 400, you have incorrectly specified the 
parameter values that the method should accept and their mapping to 
HTTP parameters. 
- One of the Controller methods that is annotated with @RequestMapping 
probably needs to take an HttpServletResponse object as a parameter 
and use this object to write out binary data that should be sent to 
the client. 
- There are multiple ways to implement most pieces of the application. 
- One way to generate a unique ID for each video is to use an 
AtomicLong similar to this: 
```java 
private static final AtomicLong currentId = new AtomicLong(0L); 

private Map<Long,Video> videos = new HashMap<Long, Video>(); 

public Video save(Video entity) { 
   checkAndSetId(entity); 
   videos.put(entity.getId(), entity); 
   return entity; 
} 

private void checkAndSetId(Video entity) { 
   if(entity.getId() == 0){ 
   entity.setId(currentId.incrementAndGet()); 
} 
} 
```
